Narrator:
Previously on "american dad"...
Babe, where's my hat?
[ sniffs ]
Wait, this isn't my hat.
I'm lost without my hat!
[ screams ]
[ sobs ]
[ sobbing ]
Don't shut me out, jeff!
♪♪
Our new life
begins today.
Welcome to lids.
I'm parker.
What can I help
you find today?
Narrator: That's right.
Tonight, your questions
are finally answered.
Tonight, you find out what
happened with jeff's hat!
This episode takes place
right after that episode
Where jeff lost his hat
and before he gets it back.
He doesn't buy that one.
♪♪
♪ good morning, u.S.A. ♪
♪ I got a feelin' that
it's gonna be a wonderful day ♪
♪ the sun in the sky
has a smile on his face ♪
♪ and he's shinin' a salute
to the american race ♪
♪ oh, boy, it's swell to say ♪
♪ good -- ♪
♪ good morning, u.S.A. ♪
Aah!
Check it out!
I found my old
high school yearbook!
Wait, you're from
a different planet,
But you went to "high school"
and had a "yearbook?"
Captain of the jv lacrosse
team two years in a row.
Wow, this is
taking me back.
Wow.
Wow, wow, wow, wow.
Oh, wow!
Oh, my god!
Wow.
Wow!
Oh, my god.
Wow what?
Oh, nothing.
Just reminiscing.
He wanted me to ask!
I know you wanted me to ask!
[ gasps ]
my senior portrait!
Francine: "live fast and leave
a dope-ass footprint."
Is that your
senior quote?
Great long-distance
reading, mom!
Yeah, I put that in there
to always remind me
Why I didn't
just take a job
Working at my uncle rizbo's
space gas station.
They really call it
a space gas station?
What would you call a place
that sells space gas?
Uncle r wanted me bad,
but I thought I was destined
For greater things.
I don't know, I thought I was
gonna make a mark,
But when I think about it,
what have I actually done?
What are you talking about?
You've been a senator,
a wedding planner.
You were essentially a cop.
That's
essentially true.
Your footprint is
crazy dope, bro!
But I didn't do those things,
my personas did.
If the losers
from my high school
Try to look me up
they won't find roger,
They'll find
reaganomics lamborghini,
Or twill ongenbone,
or ricky spanish.
Doesn't someone usually --
Narrator: Sorry, sorry,
I was ripping a clove.
[ clears throat ]
Ricky spanish.
I know exactly how
you feel, roger.
Everything I've done
for the cia?
Completely anonymous.
I skinned a warlord alive,
But you won't read
about that in the papers.
Do you want people
to read about that?
Oh, my god!
None of you understand me!
I do, stan! This started out
as my thing, remember?
Oh, yeah! Come on, roger.
Let's eat somewhere else.
This lady always gets
my order wrong anyway.
[ cellphone chimes ]
It's hayley.
She says jeff needs us.
Is this the hat thing?
Bet your ass it is.
Let's roll.
Roger, where are we?
Bruncha nonsense!
Langley's hottest
party brunch spot!
And we're here because
they have bottomless mimosas!
And if we're gonna figure out
how to leave a footprint behind,
We're gonna need drinks.
Oh, shit!
The drag show is starting.
Don't make eye contact.
Stop me if I try to top them
and embarrass myself
By doing the splits,
which I'm not even good at
Because of my little
meatball legs.
Just make today
about me for once!
Hayley!
We came as soon as we could.
What's the status?
Zero progress.
Jeff's been staring
at these hats for six hours.
Oh, the poor thing.
You can do this, buddy.
Ask for a fedora!
What's happening
here?
He's trying
to pick a new hat.
Oh, wow. Huge.
[ cellphone rings ]
Yeah, sorry,
I'm not coming.
Let me know if we have
a boy or a girl.
Love you, bye!
[ gulps ] okay, if we
want to leave a big footprint,
We need a big idea.
Oh! What if we get
the city council
To turn that abandoned
lot by the mall
Into a park for kids?
Yes! And maybe at night it can
be for drug addicts?
Sure! And we can put
our names on it!
Stan and roger park!
Amazing! Except --
except it sounds hard.
Is there anything easier?
Hmm.
Easier would be easier.
You know what all these mimosas
make me want to do?
Go to a taping
of "morning mimosa."
Ooh! Do you think
we're drunk enough?
They ask that you be
pretty drunk.
♪ there's a whole lot
of rhythm goin' 'round ♪
I told you
we were drunk enough!
We're not
as drunk as trish.
♪ we want the funk ♪
♪ give up the funk ♪
♪ oh, we need the funk ♪
Stan, I thought
of a footprint idea.
What's the one thing I can
do that everyone will remember?
Win the stanley cup?
Reveal myself as an alien!
Perfect!
But what about the cia?
They'll arrest you and use you
for esper-I-mints.
Ah, yeah. I forget they're
after me sometimes.
Me too.
I go through long stretches
Where I don't even
think about it.
You know what's crazy?
I see bullock all the time.
I have a persona that plays
poker with him,
One that's on
a bowling team with him.
We've been on
nine different hinge dates.
He always asks
for a ride home
So he can make a move
in the car.
What a skeeze.
Good tactic, though.
Usually works on me.
[ snoring ]
[ sniffing ]
Stan, I figured
it out.
When I reveal myself,
you "catch" me.
Then you tell everyone
you killed me,
And I go back
in the attic!
Of course!
You're earth's first alien,
And I'd be the man
who killed him!
Footprint city, usa!
Aye aye, captain!
Captain? Did you draw on
my face again?
It's no use.
It's permanent.
You got to wait for the skin
to die and flake off.
So, we've got a big idea,
and now we need a big audience.
We need a tv show.
Yes!
But how do we get one?
That's the easy part.
You ever heard of
brandon tartikoff?
Nbc president from 1981 to 1991?
Rings a bell.
Legend has it that the idea
for "miami vice" came from
Brandon writing "mtv cops"
on a cocktail napkin.
Is that true?
Probably not.
Even so, all we have to do
Is put the right combination
of words on a napkin
And we'll be
in television heaven.
"tax cops."
Woman: Excuse me.
I am a successful
television executive,
And I believe that napkin
is going to be a hit show!
Can I buy it?
Deal!
Excellent.
Nice to meet you,
I'm tony vengeance.
Wow, great name.
Stan smith.
And this is...
You're gonna like this,
he's usually got great names.
Stan matthews.
Really?
Stan one and stan two,
love it!
I'll see you stans
in hollywood!
Where you'll make
so much money
You could buy
a real eye patch!
And you can buy a nose!
A real nose?
I can almost smell it!
Footprint city,
here we come!
Stan matthews?
Yeah, dave matthews'
brother.
Oh, wow.
And that is why
I don't lead with it.
Stan matthews likes to make
his own way in the world.
Narrator: There are
1,500 irs agents
In the state of virginia.
These are their stories.
Everyone pays
taxes, dirt bag!
Easy! He's rich!
The rules don't apply!
[ dramatic music plays ]
[ tires squeal ]
[ gunshots ]
He's shooting at us!
Good! The windshield is
a write-off!
[ tires squeal ]
I know this guy is lying
on his taxes,
I just don't know how!
The numbers!
The answer is always
the numbers!
Got him.
[ dramatic music plays ]
What does
this guy want?
Revenge.
I busted him for claiming
A boa constrictor
as a dependent.
That snake!
[ tires squeal ]
Ma'am, I'm afraid
I have bad news.
[ dramatic music plays ]
I don't know, partner.
Sometimes it feels like all we
do is look for write-offs.
When what we should be doing
is looking for right-ons.
Tony:
You're killing it, stans!
12 episodes aired,
and an emmy for best new show!
The network is so pleased
that they've decided to air
The finale after
the super bowl!
After the super bowl?!
Not only that, but we're gonna
do the episode live!
[ both barking ]
Well, I'll leave you two to
your creative process.
Heavens to betsy!
Our plan is working, stan!
Oh, I got you something
to commemorate
The footprint we're gonna make
when we drop the a-bomb!
Do you mean alien bomb?
Exactly!
And the finale is the perfect
place to drop it.
Yeah, totally, totally.
Doesn't want to
open his gift.
That's fine. Friendship is
best celebrated alone, I guess.
Unless he thinks
it's for christmas!
[ indistinct chatter ]
Listen up, gang.
The network just told me
Our finale is going to air
live after the super bowl!
I need ideas.
Ideas?
Aren't we locked in
with the a-bomb?
Maybe, but let's
keep it open
Until the staff has
a chance to weigh in.
Maybe we do an episode shot
entirely from
The perspective
of a tax return?
And like half the episode
is just hearing voices
From inside an envelope?
That's good, finchy!
Stan, I don't --
I don't think
that works with the "thing."
What thing?
The big reveal.
The big alien reveal?
The big alien reveal?!
Are we tackling
the tax ramifications
Of illegal immigration?
No.
Can I talk to you outside?
But write that down, andrew.
Something for next season.
I'm not afraid
to tell the truth.
Look, roger, I know
the original idea
Was the whole "alien thing,"
but I really feel like
That's not the story
we're telling anymore.
That's the only story!
Totally, and we've got that
in our back pocket, for sure.
But I've been thinking, what if
audit dogs is our footprint?
Why do sci-fi alien stuff
when we can say something real?
It's not sci-fi, stan.
It's my life.
If it has aliens, it's sci-fi,
even if it's real.
Why would we pivot when we're
just scratching the surface
Of the racist origins
of the virginia tax code?
Come on, roger,
we won an emmy!
I didn't!
Stan matthews did,
And that's the worst persona
name I've ever come up with!
You added esquire.
That's pretty funny.
Yeah, well roger
still needs to make
His footprint somehow!
And I'm gonna do
something about it!
Babe, you can do this.
Parker's trying
to help you.
You got to sack up
and trust him.
He put us all
in great hats.
He can do that
for you.
What is
happening here?
He's trying
to pick a new hat.
Did he try
that blue one?
He did. No go.
Is that
a talking fish?
[ applause ]
Welcome back.
We're very excited to bring
on our next guests,
The creators and stars of
"audit dogs",
Stan smith
and stan matthews!
[ cheers and applause ]
Welcome, stans!
Now, your show
is very good.
Thank you.
But you're not here
to talk about that.
Stan two, we're told you have
something shocking to share.
No, don't do this.
Trish and suze,
I am not stan matthews.
I'm not even a man.
I'm --
a dog?
No. I'm --
two dogs?
Hold that thought!
I'm being told
by our producers
That we're being pre-empted
by the news!
Ew.
Memphis stormfront here
with breaking news.
Mankind has made contact
with extraterrestrial life.
An alien spacecraft has landed
in langley falls.
What the --
I knew you'd try
something like this.
This is you?!
We bring you there live...
As he descends from his ship,
I wonder why he's chosen
our insignificant rock, earth.
What wisdom hath
he come to share?
[ gunfire ]
[ crowd gasping ]
Oh, well. Probably for the best.
He looked weird.
This will surely be the first
of many aliens to visit earth,
But who will care
or remember the next one?
Now, back to "morning mimosa",
where I understand trish
Is interviewing a dog,
or possibly two.
Another alien?!
Are you shitting me
right now?!
Ugh, I knew you were gonna
harp on this.
Because being the first
alien here
Was my last shot
at leaving a footprint!
And you took that away from me,
for your precious show.
Goodbye forever, stan.
I'm packing my things
and leaving earth!
This is a mistake!
We're making "the wire",
but good!
♪♪
Jiminy weasel!
Is that a weal wocket?
That's a model, kid.
Yeah, sure buddy.
[ rumbling ]
[ crowd gasping ]
[ screaming ]
[bleep] knew it was
a real rocket.
Goodbye, earth.
You may not remember me,
but I'll never forget you.
[ coughs ]
Sorry, kid, didn't realize
there was anyone else on here.
Don't freak out,
but I'm an alien.
Well, then don't you have
your own space ship?
Oh, crap. It was
a really good one, too.
[ rumbling ]
I'm real happy to finally
have you working for me, roger.
I think this is
gonna be great!
Me too, uncle rizbo!
You know, I was obsessed
with making
A massive footprint
on the universe.
But now I realize I'll be
perfectly happy
Making a smaller, yet equally
important footprint,
At this dingy gas station
with basically zero customers.
I do have
one question, though.
How do you keep
from killing yourself?
[ chuckles ]
My advice is to just take it
one space day at a time.
You know what?
Maybe I can do that.
Which is 17 million
earth years.
Well, I'll leave
you to it.
But two questions. Is that
a human, and can I eat him?
Ooh. I'm a hot
commodity up here.
Okay, stan two is gone,
and we need to recast.
I'm thinking either
a super hot lady
Or bobby moynihan,
but I'm open to ideas.
What if your new partner
Is a talking helicopter?
How would I hear it talk
over the rotors?
Subtitles?
Don't take this the wrong way,
but you have bad ideas.
Ugh, where did
the good ideas come from?
Where did this present
come from?
"dear stan, thank you for making
a footprint with me."
"when I gazed down at the beach,
There was only
one pair of footprints,
When there should've
been two."
There should've been two!
I have to rewrite the finale.
Can we go home?
No.
I need to get a copy
of the finale to space.
Which means I need you all
to build me a rocket ship.
How are we supposed
to do that?
You're television writers, the
smartest people in the world.
Figure it out.
There's only one hat left.
This has got to be it!
Oh, this one's fabulous.
If he doesn't want it,
I'm buying it.
No! None of these hats
will do!
But there are
no more hats.
Yes, there is.
But only one hat
can make me whole.
I know what I must do.
I must go on a quest.
A quest to find my actual hat!
[ all gasp ]
A quest? I'm in!
But mr. Klaus,
it could be dangerous.
Really? Why?
Who cares about danger?
My babe needs his hat.
Stan one!
I read the new finale.
Pretty great, right?
Oh, yeah, very great.
The greatest!
The best greatest!
One sort of macro note.
It's terrible...
Ly great?
Usually the show
has a ton of action,
But this is just
two characters talking about
"footprints" in a diner.
Also, everyone keeps talking
about someone named roger.
Who is that?
Who the [bleep] is roger?
My best friend.
Oh.
Look, if you do
this episode,
Your audience is gonna be
very confused.
It could ruin the show.
There are things I'm trying
to say to our audience,
And to roger.
Your best friend roger?
Yes.
If losing the show
is the price
Of getting my friend back,
I'll pay it.
Okay, you are
the writer.
I am just a humble
television executive,
Here to support your vision
no matter what.
I do have
six pages of notes.
It's mostly just stream
of consciousness descriptions
Of what I think unicorns
are up to in real life.
Take it or leave it.
[ theme music plays ]
How are you
watching audit dogs?
Oh, we get earth
television up here.
Just like in "contact."
You ever see that movie?
No.
So you're just another fraud
at space camp.
I thought being
audit dogs was our legacy?
No, we're
not audit dogs.
We're stan and roger!
And when you left, I remembered
all the things we've done.
[ sentimental music playing ]
♪♪
I realized there was a hole
in my heart
Where your foot had been
because the footprints
That matter are the ones you
leave on your loved ones.
And you've left
a shaquille o'neal-sized
Footprint on my heart.
Wow.
This show sucks now.
Stan always talked about
having something to say.
Was that it?
Yo, can I get
your bathroom key?
Is this an emmy?
From earth?
Yeah, how
do you know that?
I'm a major intergalactic
movie producer.
I've won all sorts
of awards!
But an emmy from earth?
That's the top, baby!
This is yours?
Yeah, I used to make
this show "audit dogs."
No shit!
Oh, yeah, I did lots
of stuff on earth.
I'd dress up as different people
and do whatever I wanted.
I was a senator,
a yoga instructor,
I had a bunch of sex.
Oh, man, sex feels
soooo good down on earth!
Not like here.
Wow!
Your story is incredible.
I'd love to make it
into a movie.
Really?
Oh, yeah!
And I think you should star!
This is gonna be huge,
and everyone in the universe
Is gonna know your name!
Heavens to betsy!
You know, another thing
for the movie is that
I had this human family --
and you didn't eat them?
Oh, no, I loved
them too much.
I'd come home to them and share
everything I did that day.
And the dad
was this great guy
Who would think this movie
thing was so cool and -- and --
Stan: ♪ roger ♪
♪ roger ♪
♪ our footprint is real ♪
They gave you
an emmy for this?
Hey, he's stealing my ship!
Oh, sweet!
A human boy!
I'm starving!
Aah!
And I'll save
the bottom half for later.
Who am I kidding?
I'm gonna eat it all now.
Roger!
Stan!
I got what I wanted, a chance
to leave a real footprint!
But it felt empty, and I
realized the real footprint
Is the one you leave
on those you love.
So you got the message
I put in the show for you?
Oh, is that what
you were trying to say?
Anyway, I can't wait to get back
to work on "audit dogs."
We got cancelled.
Also our entire writing staff
died in a freak rocket accident.
Oh, that's too bad.
I liked finchy.
He smelled good.
Where is everybody?
Francine left
a voice mail.
Said something about jeff
and a quest.
Oh, this must be
the hat thing.
Really makes our problems
seem small.
[ eerie music playing ]
♪♪
[ cat meows ]
Our plan is working
purrrr-fectly.
Without his hat,
jeff will lose his mind,
And hayley will have no choice
but to leave him.
Then she'll be single,
and we can ask her out.
[ evil laugh ]
'zooka sharks!
Is the bathroom --
hey, is that my hat?
Uh...
Thanks, dude!
Hey guys!
The quest is done, man!
Bye! Have a beautiful time!